I think the NHS could create massively
greater patient Satisfaction by
deploying certain behaviors and
techniques like what well Rory
Southerland he is an author columnist
and the vice chairman of Aug UK one of
the largest marketing companies in the
world he's an adman stories are the PDF
files of human information they're the
vehicle we use for storing information
and the vehicle we use for sharing it if
you want to improve how people feel
psychology is a better area for
exploration than rational Improvement
don't make the Eurostar faster make the
journey more enjoyable and that's one of
the cleverest reframings you can do the
Uber map is a psychological moonshot
what bothers us about waiting for a taxi
isn't actually the duration it's the
degree of uncertainty and if you have a
map which shows you where the taxi is
you're basically relaxed you can
genuinely perform magic in perception
what is the seat covering for the Tesla
it's called vegan leather now actually
to be honest we would have called those
plastic seats back in the day if it
makes things feel more valuable is it a
con without further Ado I'm Steven
Bartlett and this is the dire of CEO I
hope nobody's listening but if you are
then please keep this to
[Music]
yourself Ry first of all thank you for
being here as uh as someone who built a
marketing business and has worked in
sort of similar industry um to you for a
huge portion of my life um you're
someone that I've always looked up to
and even young members of my team here
cite you as being an inspiration on an
ongoing basis for the work they're doing
just broadly on even of these new
platforms like Tik Tok because the
principles and the psychology and the
the sort of rationality underneath much
of your work is is really really
Timeless um so thank you for being here
I that's a great honor and um uh we'll
get into some mutual fanboying later um
but no I mean I one of the great
insights I think which I hope helps
motivate everybody working in our
industry and related Industries is that
when you create perceptual value you are
creating value value can be created in
the mind every bit as much as it can be
created in the factory and I think there
was a an unfortunate story about
marketing that treated it as kind of
optional extra it was the fairy dust on
top of the real intrinsic value that
resided in a product or service and I
completely dispute that I think we value
things according not to what they are
but what they mean and what they mean is
context dependent it can be uh massively
transformed by storytelling Framing
recontextualization and you can
absolutely use psychological um
mechanisms to make things more valuable
more enjoyable more precious that's one
important point I might make the
additional point which is to be honest
over ambitious but I make it anyway
which is that actually perceived value
is a very environmentally friendly form
of value to
create because you can generally create
meaning and imbue a product with meaning
um with a lot less carbon consumption
than is necessarily involved in making
the product three times bigger or five
times faster and you know my argument
would also be if we're looking for
breakthrough 10x moonshot
improvements it's actually much easier
to find psychological moonshots than
technological moonshots you know make a
train 10 times faster you know it was
possible in 1840 1820 okay very
difficult to do now um to a point of
just dangerousness or you know
extraordinarily difficult engineering
problem making a train journey 10 times
more enjoyable that's still doable in my
view give me an example then what's the
the example that always comes to mind
for you of where someone has managed to
put tremendous moonshot style value on
something a brand po
just with marketing and advertising but
what I'm always very fond of is I think
the Uber map is a psychological
moonshot and it's based I mean the the
story which may or may not be true is
that one of the founders of uber was
inspired by watching Goldfinger and when
he saw Bond effectively following
Goldfinger using a tracking device there
was a scrolling map in the dashboard of
the db4 which showed him where
goldfinger's car was so he could Trail
it while remaining out of of sight um uh
then um what was extraordinary about
that was that it was based on a very
clever insight into human psychology
which most of us ourselves aren't really
aware of which is the we would say and
we confidently say we believe that I
hate it when a taxi takes a long time to
turn up I like it when a taxi turns up
quickly so a rational person or an
engineer would react to that by saying
what we need is a predictive algorithm
so that taxies to be available in areas
where we predict heavy demand so that we
can service customers more quickly and
by the way there's nothing wrong with
that it may be a very worthwhile thing
to do although it's worth saying that it
requires quite a lot of scale in order
to achieve
that but the real insight with the map
is that deep down you know somewhere in
the amydala what bothers us about
waiting for a taxi isn't actually the
duration it's the degree of uncertainty
in other words is he here yet maybe he's
pared around the corner or what if he
can't find that house maybe he's already
left was the person on the phone lying
and so wait that period between booking
a taxi and waiting for it to arrive was
one of General high stress now what's
interesting is you could reduce that
stress I admit by getting the taxi to
turn up very quickly or at least you'd
reduce the period of stress but the
stress would still remain on the other
hand if you have a map which shows you
where the taxi is you're basically
relaxed okay instead of going oh my God
you know where is he where is he I'm
sure you know maybe he's already left i'
better go and stand out in the rain so
he doesn't miss me or get impatient you
just look at the map and you go oh look
he's stuck at those traffic lights I'll
have another pint Okay now what's
interesting is that the quantity of
waiting is the same with or without a
map you know in pure quantitative
measured SI unit terms of time and
duration no difference the quality of
the waiting is totally transformed it's
almost taking it from a a system
dependent on TR on trust how much you
trust that particular firm how have they
performed in the past do they sometimes
lie to me have other taxi drivers
sometimes lied to me to A system that is
almost completely trustless where I
don't need to trust you because I can
see for myself and I suppose there's
also an element of trust which uh okay
was provided historically in London by
the knowledge and the knowledge was an
interesting thing because I I
occasionally debate this which is was
the knowledge really about knowledge in
other words we don't need black cab
drivers to St to this level of detail
now we have the technology of the
satinav yeah and pure sort of
utilitarian people go why on Earth am I
paying a premium for a black cab driver
to learn all this stuff um when he could
simply buy a TomTom for 300 quid and
stick it on the dashboard and there's
some argument for that okay the only
other point is that you have a very high
degree of trust one of the great things
you could say about the knowledge is it
sunk cost it's commit it's proof of
commitment you're only going to actually
go through that Pro process if you're
pretty serious about being a really good
cab
driver also it provides you if you think
about if you've spent what a year and a
half two years scuttling around London
on a moped with one of those clipboards
rehearsing for your sessions of the
knowledge okay you'd be a bit of an
idiot uh effectively losing your taxi
license day one wouldn't you okay you
know it's you know in other words it is
to some it's rather like medieval guilds
they required extraordinary stringent
conditions of entry into the guild but
that was what ensured honesty because uh
the cost of being thrown out of the
guild given the effort you'd put into
actually being admitted in the first
place was therefore made it not
worthwhile to cheat you you also say
something in in your book about how
making a process more difficult can
sometimes make it more attractive to
Consumers so I mean this is known
sometimes as the Ikea effect which is
that um certainly um cprad who's the
kind of owner and founder of Ikea
believes that the fact that you assemble
the furniture yourself contributes to
its perceived value in other words
you've committed something of yourself
to its assembly and creation you might
also argue it d stigmatizes low prices
okay so I'll give you an example of that
there's a very big difference between
cheap strawberries and pick your own
strawberries now picky own strawberries
are cheap but there's a narrative as to
why they're cheap which is I put into
some of the effort into the harvesting
of the things and I have to go out into
a field and pick the things myself cheap
strawberries by contrast May create some
degree of uncertainty because you look
at the market and go well if these
strawberries were really good why
wouldn't they charge full price for them
what's wrong with this and so quite
often you know sometimes you have to
make things more expensive to make them
trustworthy oddly okay you know you can
be too good to be true that consumers
won't necessarily trust something that's
cheap unless there's a narrative around
it as to where the cost savings are made
I mean I think I think a lot of low if
you think about lowcost Airlines okay
they spent quite a lot of effort talking
about what you didn't get you don't get
a meal okay uh you have to pay to check
in your luggage uh you don't get it
originally with easy jet you didn't even
get pre-allocated seating okay it was
you know effectively like a bus uh you
had to book online you couldn't book
through a travel agent and those
constraints to some extent
were there to make it believable to the
consumer that there was a legitimate
form of cost saving going on now if
you'd said if you launched EasyJet and
you'd said we're just as good as British
Airways were but we're half the
price the untrusting consumer is going
to ask how are you doing this okay does
it mean you're not servicing the engines
all the pilots are all on day release
from prison or something right you're
going to start having doubts so
interestingly sometimes negative stories
around a product can be used to offset
the negatives which a consumer would
tend to imagine if Ikea had ready
assembled Furniture which wasn't sold in
a warehouse it was sold in a kind of
Posh heels style
Emporium we'd think there was something
a bit iffy going on so you know and
there's also the wonderful Ikea effect
which is the effort of actually going to
an Ikea and navigating the maze makes it
more or less impossible for you to go
home empty-handed you know you have to
buy some tea lights at the very minimum
just to validate your trip now the I
suppose the earliest manifestation of
this although it's sometimes called the
Ikea
effect was a very famous marketing case
study um for Betty Crocker cakes where
they had a cake mix where you just added
water put in the oven created a cake and
it didn't sell very well and a
psychologist came in and said there
isn't enough effort involved in this to
make it feel like cooking and so they
added the slogan just add an egg the
addition of the egg although it actually
imposed a cost and a small degree of
effort suddenly made the product much
more popular why now the idea would be
that now it was actually cooking you
were preparing something for your family
you weren't just
cheating perhaps I mean it's an
interesting debate because we don't
fully know that this this wasn't tested
to an absolutely robust level of
academic uh certainty uh you know um uh
but nonetheless it's a very common it's
very popular anecdote within marketing
that sometimes the counterintuitive I
think that's all you need to derive from
it okay all you need to derive from it
in business decision making is sometimes
the counterintuitive approach might be
better and this I'm I was thinking then
about these modern sort of meal delivery
companies so you have obviously on one
end Super Convenience you have Uber Uber
Eats Etc delivery and then you have this
Middle Ground of where we'll send you
the ingredients and tell you how to put
it in the pan and we'll measure so that
be gust or hello fresh yeah exactly you
putsy feel like you cooked it's a very
strange thing um because uh one of the
founders of Gusto actually met me
shortly before
lockdown and I was I couldn't really
make sense of the product okay at first
and this by the way really interested me
because Bill Gates once said of
technology that the problem we have with
technology is people don't know how to
want the things we can offer them and
one of the things that increasingly
fascinates me is products which an
economist would call them an experience
good where it's only really possible to
perceive their value by actually using
them I have to admit when I was
presented with gusto and hellofresh I
thought this is kind of dumb I've got an
you know cardo account I can order
things from Sainsbury's for click and
collect I've got well my wife more
accurately has got 20 or 30 cookery
books of various kinds all I have to do
is pick a recipe from a cookery book
effectively order the necessary
ingredients follow instructions cook at
home job done why on Earth would I want
a box with um you know pre-selected
ingredients and the right ratio arriving
with a recipe
card but anyway I met this guy and he
said well I'll send you a free box now
you know I'm not so you know ungrateful
and nasty a human being that I go I
don't want your stinking box of free
food and I think it was actually towards
the beginning of the pandemic anyway so
I wasn't entir sure that food was going
to remain abundantly available so I said
sure you know absolutely I'm delighted
the other thing is I probably ordered a
Gusto box for um the only reason we
stopped was actually we had our kitchen
replaced and had a period with an oven
but pretty much every week um my
assistant Anna who's in the Next Room
has also had a
Gusto the majority of weeks for two and
a half years ever since experiencing it
you asked me to explain this I mean this
is what's So Glorious which is I can't
quite explain
why once experience this is such a
compelling benefit true um okay um it
possibly is the fact that because these
ingredients in the right ratio and have
a limited shelf life it forces you to
cook them and therefore it forces you to
cook what ends up being a restaurant
quality meal at home with not too much
effort okay in by the way a reasonably
healthy quantity as well one of the
problems with take away food is if you
want variety you end up with completely
excessive quantity don't you you end up
either keeping the stuff in the fridge
or with an extraordinary amount of food
waste because the take unlike a
restaurant where they think well if we
give them slightly too little food they
might order a pudding or something else
in takeaway food you don't get a second
chance to top them up so the great
paranoia I think of all takeaway
restaurants is not putting enough
quantity
in and so you do end up with a
restaurant quality meal at the price of
a ready meal um which you have cooked
yourself that's very logical though give
me the illogical uh was there something
some surprise and Delight in I genuinely
I I don't I've just got one product okay
which is the greatest example of a
product which genuinely kind of creates
massive contradictions in my own mind
which is the quooker I don't know if
you've got one of instant boiling water
effectively oh yeah I've got one you got
one over there yeah if you want the
story of the crooker by the way I'll
tell your listeners CU it's fascinating
there were two people I think at unil
who were who their brief was effectively
to invent CER soup and they did it very
successfully they produced what is a
powdered form of
soup and one of them said right job done
we've created the cup of soup boil a
kettle pour the water on you've got a
nice mug of soup job done I'll go back
to the day job and the other Dutch guy
basically felt no I've only solved half
the problem here because you still have
to wait for the kettle to
boil and for whatever reason I mean you
must have been a kind of of compulsive
inventor he became obsessed with solving
the second half of the cuper souit
problem which is how can we create
boiling water faster which was
technically off brief but nonetheless
for some reason absolutely preoccupied
him and so he effectively ended up
creating what is a Dutch company cooker
now okay half of me you know perhaps the
more puritanical rational half is going
you've just paid not quite a four-figure
sum but a very large figure some for a
very fast
Kettle and the other half of me is going
I wouldn't go back you know having I
don't know what your relationship is
with your cooker but i' find it
difficult now going back to a kettle
having experienced instant tea making
instant soup making if you want to poach
an egg you can fill a pan with boiling
water uh instantaneously you don't have
to wait for that to cook up Suddenly of
course you discover new and
complimentary uses for boiling water
that all seems very logical to me that
makes perfect sense yeah I mean the only
thing is I think you've got a lot of
products which are much much easier for
you to defend or understand or
appreciate in retrospect than they are
few to write a check for in advance
right I've got you and that's that's a
marketing problem the electric car by
the way is I mean one really interesting
question I always ask about any
technology which I think is a question
that's asked too little people ask what
are the unit sales of this technology
and how fast are they growing actually
any new technology grows very slowly to
begin with it's a sigmoid curve um
nearly anything significantly new starts
off fairly Niche yeah yeah and the
reason is that the two driving forces of
human behavior are habit and social
copying and therefore when you've never
done it before and none of your friends
do it doing something is much more
difficult to do and I'm old enough to
remember the time when the majority of
my friends said I don't understand why
you'd want a mobile phone okay I mean I
can actually remember when Mo I I used a
mobile phone on Oxford Street in 1989
two people shouted abuse at me from
passing
taxis it was like a brick it was a
social statement it was my phone it was
we had company phones and we signed them
out for the day but just the act of
using one of these things in public
would expose you to a general appr
probium and it's impossible for anybody
now to think back on that because I
don't think anybody knows anybody
without a mobile phone the example that
I that comes to mind for me and it's Al
to do with a crooker I didn't call it a
cooker I just call it the tap but yeah
instant hot water instant cold water um
is music and a friend of mine told me
the story of standing with the HMV I
think it's HMV CEO looking out on the
shop floor at all these people buying
CDs and he said to him we'll always have
a business because people love music now
what he got wrong is he was right that
people love music but they don't love
getting in their car driving in the rain
and then getting a plastic seed uh piece
of plastic which they can then get
damaged very easily they can only carry
a few of them and driving it back to the
house people loved music and he only
really found they really like CDs I
might make a point by the way that in
terms of its if someone has a design
sensibility in terms of its
proliferation the CD laughably named
jewel case the plastic hinge case in
which the CD came was probably the
nastiest single you know manufactured
item in everything from environmental
terms to just usability you know the
fact that it opened with a horrible sort
of cracking snap now what's interesting
is that vinyl has made a
Resurgence but I don't see any sign of a
CD Resurgence any more than I see there
are a few weird people who are back into
cassettes aren't there there but I think
that's fairly nichy yeah that's kind of
like lomography and photography it's one
of those sort of weird countercultures
but but but I can understand I can just
about understand it's slightly weird
when my daughter asked for a a
gramophone player for her birthday
because I'm kind of going I you know I
was born in 1965 I spent my whole life
trying to get rid of the nuisance of
physical music to you know effectively
something akin to Spotify and now you're
weirdly reverting to this thing you know
it made no sense to me um possibly
there's an element that if you're really
devoted to a particular band you want to
spend money and Signal your devotion in
some physical form I don't know what's
going on there fully I I think is that
not just a case of like scarcity yeah I
I well I suspect one of the one of the
curses of capitalism is that is
recursive fashion exactly uh so um
Jeremy bulmore who's now I suppose in
his late 80s wonderful guy who was the
creative director of Jay Walter Thompson
he was a director of wpp for many years
he made the point and by the way as you
get older you realize much more of this
here we go again you know because you
have greater chronologic context in
which to appreciate it but he made the
point that when he was a child all
cheddar cheese came with a rind so most
cheese you buy in a shop was cut from a
wheel and it would have either some sort
of wax or or else rind or sometimes it's
cloth on the exterior and someone then
started selling rindless cheddar and
they charged a premium for it you see
because you know oh brilliant I don't
have to pay for the Rind and I don't
have to cut it off what a wonderful
convenience and then memories being
short and obviously some people being
born before they could remember cheddar
with a rind anyway about 25 30 years
after that people started introducing
Farmhouse Artisan cheddar with the Rind
left on and they charged a premium for
that so you do have this peculiar thing
where um that's all marketing though
isn't advertising because what you're
saying that's the real key it's it's
it's human partly human neophilia so
that what's different attracts our
attention Okay so undoubtedly we
disproportionately pay attention to
things which are new or seemingly
different and we're novelty seeking to a
great extent what is the story though if
I buy that Artis analy the story for me
especially being Artisan is this is the
real cheese in my head I immediately go
that Supermarket stuff is just fake
processed but the Rind signals that this
I'm paying for real cheese well I mean
we can look at the we can look at the
interesting uh re exactly it's a
recursive Trend and of course in fashion
it happens all the time that you know uh
that the most bizarre Fashions including
sort of flare and um Afghan coats you
know sequins have made a massive
comeback and you um and the truth is
that when they come around a second time
the context is different so they mean
something different you see the same
with Brands like fer like these old
brands have exploded Fela is in a good
example where it was it became when I
was 10 years old re you but if you
bought feler you had no money and you
weren cool when I was 20 if you have fer
you were the coolest person Burberry had
that as as well they went from being oh
if you're if you're wearing bbery you
are a bit of a ruy right you're a little
bit rough as a person to this kind of I
guess it was a branding exercise where
brand bbery then became really cool
again maybe because of part of the term
for this is sometimes counter signaling
it was a bit like um hipsters drinking
pabs Blue Ribbon ribbon I think it's
called Uh which is it was historically
down Market Blue Collar American Beer
right okay okay it was down Market of
kind of Bud visor and the other you know
cause and so forth and this is a really
interesting thing in human behavior
sometimes in marketing itself but also
in how humans Market themselves because
I I think one of the conclusions we've
got to come to and we have to admit and
which the better understanding of will
be I think central to understanding um
how we solve things like the
environmental crisis and indeed overc
consumption is that the human brain
itself has quite a large marketing
function you know it has an accounting
function it cares about the efficient
use of resources it has you know all
kinds of kind of algorithms and
heuristics that are kind of in many
cases innate and built in but it also
has a marketing function it very much
cares about uh image and Status
effectively what something you do means
to other people now one thing that is
common to lots of animals is signaling
you know the most common example is the
peacock's tail elk antlers things you do
often costly things you do to
demonstrate that you can do them
Ferraris okay um and you know in many
Ferraris in London of course you know I
mean the extraordinary thing when you
think about it is having a Ferrari in
central London is about as deranged A
Car Choice as you can imagine okay but
the very fact that it's impractical and
ludicrous is almost what gives it
meaning okay as I said you know if the
um this is a very mischievous sentence
but if people were attracted to people
who drove expensive Vehicles okay then
they find Lorry drivers more attractive
than Ferrari owners in many cases
because the truck is actually more
expensive as a vehicle or a really
Luxury Motor Coach but the motor coach
actually has a practical function which
diminishes its signaling value because
if you want to show that you really have
resources to spare nothing beats waste
indiscriminate waste shows that you
really have resources to spare you know
or you pursue things that are
disproportionately scarce the real
interesting thing with humans though and
I don't think there's a case where
animals do this is they also practice
something called counter
signaling which is showing that you
don't have to try because you're
confident enough in your other
attributes okay so an example of that
would be in
Academia a an a professor who's aspiring
to get a let's say a named professorship
or tenure will go around in a suit okay
a tenard professor who has job security
for life will go around dressed like a
[__] you know if you've won Nobel Prize
my hunch is once you've won a Nobel
Prize I think famously George stiglets
used to actually turn up at the World
Bank with no shoes on okay now
interestingly you do that it's a bit
like that old joke why do dogs lick
their own balls because they can okay
and to some extent people do what they
can get away with so you know the the
classic example is you know people who
play in very fashionable bands can
afford to be extraordinarily scruffy
because what effectively Liam and Noel
are saying is that our presence in this
band renders us so unbelievably cool and
sexy that we don't even have to make an
effort on the sorial front I've seen
this in my own life it's funny just
through the Journey of my career in the
last 10 years the example I'd give is in
my early career speaking on stage I
would try and dress really smart and
wear a suit now yeah I think it's much
better that I present myself in the
track suit bottom in the tracksuit that
I would wear like going around the house
when I speak on stage a because it's
more akin to who I am B because I can
and see I think the psychological that
I'm not adting because it might make
seem like an [__] is it's actually
more of a status play to not wear a suit
and to not show off and the same applies
for Louis Vuitton like early part of my
first five years of my career when I was
just about getting some money I'd buy
these designer Brands like Louis Vuitton
now I genuinely think if I hold a Louis
Vuitton B bag it makes me look bad so I
i' I've like rid myself and when I walk
in some I say to my man cuz I've just
got the one left that hasn't managed to
break yet I say can you hold that cuz I
want to be associated with that level of
signaling if that makes sense I guess no
and the argument is that you know you're
famous enough now that you no longer
need fashion
brands um uh to Accord you know in in
fact the very fact that you were trying
um uh given your Fame to actually uh
signal your success through fashion
would probably be counterproductive it
would stress you insecure or trying too
hard and so that thing of we do what we
can get away with to Signal what we're
cap you know what we're capable of so
it's a very oblique form of of statea
signaling it might be very valuable
environmentally counter signaling might
be something you need to harness in
other words it's cool you know it's cool
to own less yes because I don't have
things I don't have a watch I don't have
as I said to you I have an electric bike
which you've just seen like I to be fair
I do have a nice Cut um car that they
drive me in sometimes but other than
that in terms of my own possessions it's
really all about utility and not buying
it in excess and I actually think that's
a really good point that that can be
leveraged to try and um help the
environment which I I think that's
happening there's a very interesting
thing happening which is in electric
cars and I was speaking to the marketing
director of scoda they produced
something called the enyak which is
actually it's similar to the Volkswagen
id4 but it's very very good electric car
and one of the things they're noticing I
migrated from a Jaguar to the Ford
Mustang
macki um quite a few people on The macki
Forum are actually ex luxury car owners
m and quite a few people um the the
scoda marketing director was telling me
um that quite a few people who'd gone to
the scoda ENC had actually come from for
example Audi Jaguar um fairly premium
cars so there is a thing that actually
having the electric car even in a you
know a less leather clad you know Walnut
infested form uh that's now the status
component it's not the brand of the car
it's the fact that it's electric Tesla's
the same I think of Tesla as a big um I
don't give a [__] in a weird way I think
it's a big for me it's a um The Journey
honestly would be you you get a lamb if
you were insecure and this is what
you're into you'd get one of those
really fancy Brands and then the next
step is saying do you know what I don't
give a [__] which is what you see going
on in San Francisco with the
billionaires and the CEOs and the VCS
I'm going to be a Tesla person now which
is I care more about the environment and
other things and I don't really care if
you think it's still a premium brand I
mean let's be honest because let's face
it any Tesla is probably less than three
years old and actually most people don't
buy cars from new ever or only once in
their life it's not fancy though but
it's not it's not particularly fancy I
mean there's a wonderful piece of Little
Alchemy in it of course which is the
invention of the phrase vegan leather oh
really if if you think the reason I
wrote the book Alchemy is partly to
elevate the status and centrality of
marketing in business success that
actually what you are is effectively a
product of how you make people feel okay
ultimately and that's psychological it's
not technological and therefore if you
want to improve how people feel
psychology is a better area for
exploration than what you might call
rational Improvement don't make the
Eurostar faster make the journey more
enjoyable okay put Wi-Fi on the trains
serve better food okay it's a cheaper
way actually to compete okay strangely
Engineers see it as cheating you see if
you have a an engineering or a finance
background you see psychological value
is invalid but the vital thing about
psychological value is whereas it's very
difficult to perform magic in the world
of physics or engineering you can
genuinely perform magic in perception
now what is the F what what is the seat
covering for the Tesla it's called vegan
leather now actually to be honest we
would have called those plastic seats
back in the day in my childhood in the
1970s and ' 80s we
G it's got plastic seats okay now I'm
sure that vegan leather is better than
the plastic seats which you'd find in a
voxal Viva in 1977 okay I'm sure it's
better in all kinds of ways
breathability you know cleanliness
whatever but nonetheless calling it
vegan leather in other words I'm doing
this for the planet rather than plastic
which is in other words what you're
doing there is you're making it a choice
not a compromise yeah and that's one of
the cleverest reframings you can do an
aspirational Choice as indeed so yeah no
and so you know I I ABS you know I look
at things like range anxxiety and I get
that's psychological okay what's that
okay range anxiety is a big obstacle to
electric car purchase oh yeah in the UK
in two in two two levels okay one it
prob well three levels one it means that
cars tend to compete on their range
which in a sense is further emphasizing
a negative to the consumer because if
electric car advertising is all about
range okay people start to see range as
more of a problem than it is secondly it
makes the batteries bigger the cars
heavier and more expensive than they
probably need to be so it's interesting
because so often I think the obstacles
to technology adoption are really
psychological hurdles much more than
technological hurdles this is why I
think marketing is so fascinating
because there there are these products
exactly like Gusto or hellofresh which
once you experience them 50% of people
become a convert but the real marketing
challenge is well that's fine that's
great but how on Earth do you convert
people in the first place and that's a
very interesting case where after the
pandemic and this is I think the value I
think there's a multiple value to having
occasional disruptions in life one of
which is that businesses become much
less risk averse when they're facing a
crisis MH it's of necessity is the
mother of invention but consumers also
have a narrative for why they're doing
things
differently I mean in a way you could if
you looked at the whole path of human
history the 19 30s in the United States
I.E the decade immediately after the
Great Depression was probably the period
of greatest innovation in terms of you
know human welfare in everything from
Cars aircraft Etc it was an
extraordinary period of innovation and
yet it came on the heels of this total
economic disaster and I think there is
something there in that idea that um
it's almost like a kneeling when you
make a samurai sword you actually bang
the thing while it's cooling that
actually
um some periods of disruption that some
degree of variance and instability in
economies is possibly long-term healthy
I mean I I I I I'm a huge Dev more so
than you I I know you've got a very
intelligent approach to flexible working
which is yeah that's what I wanted to
talk about is yeah yeah but but it was
interesting it was interesting that
given the fact that the whole promise of
the internet really I mean I think this
is in a Douglas Copeland book called
microserfs where one of the Geeks
features in this Douglas Copeland book
it was written in the '90s I think but
he makes a very interesting comment
which is the whole purpose of what you
might call Silicon Valley technology is
to make location Irrelevant in other
words it's to make where you are
irrelevant to the performance of a
particular function and by the way there
are negatives to that there were great
positives in my childhood to the fact
that what you could do was constrained
by where you were so when you left the
office you couldn't meaningfully work
okay cuz your computer was on a desk you
photocopied in the photocopier room you
met in the meeting room you you know you
uh you wrote things at A T at a keyboard
where you were determined what you were
doing and so a certain Focus arose from
that which I think has been destroyed by
the mobile phone to some degree which
technically lets you do anything from
anywhere I find myself on holiday and
day three worrying about what I'm going
to order from a cardo when I get home
and I go actually you shouldn't be doing
this another thing it probably does by
the way is it encourages us to over plan
and I'm a big believer I I've booked a
holiday um in July and August and I'm
trying to say to my family no no we're
going to land in Chicago we're going to
leave from New York what we do in
between those dates we're going to leave
open until the very last moment the the
other great problem the internet allows
you to do I think with your holiday is
to plan it down to a kind of granular
level of detail which is actually anical
to having a good time you know a good
time often requires spontaneity and you
know my my wife and I discovered New
Mexico in just whole American St we knew
it existed okay we discovered New Mexico
more or less by accident we were on a
driving holiday and we got stuck in El
Paso and needed to get somewhere else so
we said well let's try this you know
let's L Alamos I've heard about that
right okay fairly famous okay let's go
and have a decco absolutely gorgeous
State and we've been that back five
times we discovered it effectively
through Serendipity so there are
downsides to this you can do anything
from anywhere but is a bit weird that
you know trillions of dollars invested
in the capacity to to obtain effects
remotely hadn't made a dent in the
commute all now I'm by the way I'm
totally open to people who say entirely
you know okay Airbnb has gone uh
effectively remote forever fully remote
forever now bear in mind as a company
working as a company the entire company
is is going to be 100% remote working
now there are two interesting things
going on there one of which is if you're
Airbnb and your slogan is be at home
anywhere okay it's it's a bit
countercultural to demand that people
why weren't you at your desk okay there
may be an element of Henry Ford to it
you know that Henry Ford partly created
slightly ocal but not entirely created a
two-day weekend for his own workers
because he thought if it actually spread
then it'll be worth people buying cars
if he could increase the salary for
factory work and give people two days of
guaranteed Leisure then you had people
who could both afford and make use of a
car and with their BNB if you think
about it uh they stand to be fairly
major beneficiaries of working from
anywhere oh yeah so doing it with their
own staff there was a rumor I'm not sure
it's true so for God's sake don't sue me
on this there was a famous rumor that
unila created uh dress down Fridays okay
and the I to be honest I think it's a
conspiracy theory I don't think this
happened if it did all credit to them
and the idea was if we could create a
social Norm where people went into work
in chinos and you know sweatshirts on a
Friday uh we get one extra day of
laundry because you dry cleaner suit but
you launder a uh chinos or you launder
um you know polish shirt you launder
ordinary white shirts but you launder
cotton jackets and you know casual
clothes so the argument was it was
actually a laundry maximization Ploy by
either PNG or unver not sure that's true
it would be very clever if it were but
Henry Ford undoubtedly did write about
this that creating leure was part of his
strategy for selling cars now that's
interesting because most businesses
nowadays don't have that Vision to say
actually we don't necessarily have to
optimize what we do for Imagined static
human economic behavior we can actually
change the way people behave we can
change what things mean we can change
whether something feels cheap or
expensive we can make feler a really
cool brand you know and this is why you
know I wrote the book Alchemy partly
saying we have a kind of culture in
business particularly in the finance
function of business which does which
refuses to believe in magic now I'm not
saying magic is easy or that everybody
can do it all the time it's certainly
not that easy but you shouldn't discount
it because there are vegan leather the
Uber map there are magical Solutions out
there I had a few words to say about one
of my sponsors on this podcast what's
this one hule that's hule so do I need
to mix it with water or do I just drink
it it's um no no no you wouldn't put it
in the water don't put it in the water
yeah we'll give you a separate glass if
you want it is a nutritionally complete
it's a meal and a drink effectively oh
fantastic this is a this is an
interesting brand actually for many of
the reasons we've been talking about so
this is the
last year the fastest growing e-commerce
company internationally and think about
what what what they're doing so H are
nutritionally complete
convenience um it's basically I think
it's certainly Delicious By the way
delicious it's not Nest quick I'll say
that so it's not like you know raving
delicious but nor should it be because
we wouldn't believe it amen if you made
it too tasty we wouldn't believe its
medicinal properties it's exactly like
the weird Taste of Red Bull which I was
so two lessons are magic is possible in
Psychology even if it isn't in
physics and the second lesson is
sometimes the opposite of a good idea is
another good idea in Psychology you can
actually uh you know there's Dyson and
there's the Henry you know they're both
strong vacuum CA brands in entirely
different um uh directions if you like
and the point I'm making is that I think
that High School maths encourages us to
believe that there's a single optimal
answer
uh which comes from resolving a
tradeoff and economics economics always
assumes tradeoffs I want to show you
this grenade bar it's in the draw down
so this is this shows how what you're
saying about that the the Opposites can
be two good ideas because this company
run by another one of my friends both
these companies run by my friends has
taken the complete opposite approach
they are a a protein bar right yeah I've
bought them actually tastes amazing
tastes as good as a chocolate bar and
I'm I'm going to probably tell a lie
here but I believe they are the fastest
growing chocolate bar or the most bought
chocolate bar in the UK now they are a
protein bar and they focus entirely on
taste and they've just sold to mon delay
I think for well I know for several
hundred millions so the founder is very
very wealthy now good friend of mine
right they went for Taste and they won
these have gone for much the opposite
which is really really focused on being
nutritionally complete and healthy and
I've sat in the it's not repellent it's
not absolutely not
quite quite the opposite I would drink
this perfectly content but you it it
tastes good enough for you to trust it
if it tasted even better I would stop
trusting it and having sat in the room
with the CEO and the founder we they
brought in these bars that tasted like
this what tasted good yeah and there was
a small compromise to the nutritionally
complete um um part in these new bars
and the founder and the managing
director said no we'd rather have bars
that taste worse
and protect that nutritionally complete
um sort of philosophy than to have it
taste really good an interesting an
interesting piece of psychology is that
Diet Coke has to taste slightly more
bitter than standard Coke for you to
believe it for you to believe it in
other words it's kind of
um in other words you have to have that
slight little bit of extra bite because
otherwise it does you you it doesn't
feel like a diet drink what are you
going to say about Red Bull you were
saying about you write a lot about the
there's lot about Red Bull because it's
this mysterious thing which is so
counterintuitive in that you know it
tastes nastier than Coke it costs a lot
more than Coke and it comes in a much
smaller can than
Coke and part of that is I think it's
not a drink it's a it's a medicine I
mean the whole marketing behind it it's
it's a drug
it's and actually the promise of
psychoactive Powers is delivered much
better by high price and weird taste and
small portions you wouldn't really I
mean okay to give you an extreme case
there there is a case where they
discover that drugs that op
work for relatively minor conditions by
which I let let's say as mild asthma
okay also work for certain rare Cancers
and apparently when they do this they
exaggerate the side effects because you
feel that if it's to be tackling a much
tougher challenge which is cancer you
would expect greater side effects I mean
you what you wouldn't want is an
oncology treatment which was pineapple
flavored and so there's this weird thing
which is you can you can do things which
kind of make sense which is we want this
to taste as nice as possible and you can
end up being logically wrong rather than
illogically right yeah and I think that
distinction is really useful because um
I'll give you an example actually nearly
all pharmaceutical
companies make the pills as easy to take
as possible okay as small as possible
you know and as few needed as possible
and so forth and when we heard this both
Dan arieli and I who were on I think a
zoom call at the time said oh dear and
they said well it's logical you know
we're designing a drug we produce the
drug how can we make the drug and we
said well when you make something very
small and very easy to take you also
make it very
forgettable and we actually said there
are you sure we shouldn't add a degree
of difficulty should you actually
require people to grind the drug up mix
it with water because there are several
reasons for that the more effort you put
into the preparation of the drug will
probably boost the placebo effect okay
uh but the second thing is you'll also
create a ritual which means you'll
remember whether or not you've taken it
whereas if a pill is literally you know
you have these pills where the biggest
problem with treating the condition is
not finding the medication it's it's
patient
compliance and we said maybe if you had
a bit of a Dar ritual around this where
you had to actually grind in the pestel
and mortar and add something you'd find
much higher levels of compliance and and
a boosted placebo effect as well really
interesting that this idea that friction
can create create value but it also can
can ingrain something in your routine
the other thing that I I I think about a
lot sometimes by the way some travel
websites deliberately make the search
procedure artificially
slow because you value the results more
highly if you've had a screen that says
we're now searching EasyJet British
Airways Alitalia d
and then 15 seconds later after a load
sort of flurry of activity on the screen
it delivers you your holiday
results you attach more significance to
those results and are more likely to go
through and book than if it just goes
bang and gives you an instantaneous
result well I think you did a thorough
job so I trust you more if I see you've
done you've searched 50 I go okay well I
don't need to do that myself then you've
looked at them all for me yeah that's
really interesting I now feel
scammed well interesting thing is this
is the interesting and this is a sort of
philosophic question which is if it
makes things feel more
valuable is it a con so okay I mean if
you take this whole question of how we
perceive value you could undou you
wouldn't disagree with the fact that the
nature of a restaurant and how it's
designed or the service adds to the
appreciation of food well if it's too
quick to deliver me my meal I think they
yeah well that's that's that's a very
interesting point yeah if absolutely
right um so the way in which the food is
presented it affects your appreciation
of the food now my argument is your your
job as a business person is to create as
much perceived value as
possible
and if you okay now I was talking to Jay
Raina the other day and just to be clear
on this you cannot create a great
restaurant with rubbish food okay yeah
yeah okay that's not going to happen but
once you reach what you might call table
stakes in terms of food quality the
things that make a restaurant great are
often what you might call tangential to
the food or the meal itself magic um or
you and it's it's atmosphere Decor you
know
theater who the other diners are it can
be all manner of different things and so
just as I think you're wrong Running a
Restaurant where you say the food is the
only thing that matters because you
could serve mandard food in a restaurant
that smelled of Wei and nobody would
enjoy their meal even though the food
was objectively superb um I think the
worst thing you can do in in in both
environmental terms and in business
terms is to create underappreciated
value is to go to the effort of
manufacturing something without actually
working out how to allow people to
realize how great it is scarcity in
packaging um one of the things that I'm
quite I I saw one of my favorite Brands
the other day do a trip around their
warehouse showing the warehouse and on
one hand I love seeing the warehouse I
love seeing the the craftsmanship that
goes into it and then they panned across
to this big Rail and I saw the item that
I and I saw like a like thousands of
them and I remember thinking oh [__] and
it made me reflect on what Apple do by
just laying out like one of the products
on the shop floor and how much how much
more that makes me think there's
tremendous value because I just see one
iPad and one phone and one watch there
is a kind of Genius to that yeah they
will the ancillary products they will
show in some sort of bulk won't they and
if you're buying Mouse mats or something
they don't mind having 10 of those but
the mainstream products there is one of
them and the rest of them are kept out
of sight yeah which is very interesting
Brands don't do that enough I don't
think there is also that interesting
question about the tour of the warehouse
which is you know how much do you want
to let people in on the reality on the
yeah because it can be like it can kill
the magic to to a certain point
depending on what's going on in that
warehouse it all depends I I went out
and when we were working with laa the
famous Italian you know lingerie brand
and I flew out to the there were a
client of they flew out to Italy to
their warehouses and I I I read the
story of golden scissors the original
founder would make all of the lingerie
with their hands and golden scissors and
I saw these women who all have a another
woman standing over their shoulders
ensuring perfection in the garments and
my biggest thing to the CEO of luro at
the time was like oh my God you've never
told the story of golden figures you've
never filmed this process you're now
just competing on the High Street
against um these sort of uh cheaper
lingerie Brands who are selling at 30s
you're selling at 150 and no one knows
why no cuz you just haven't told you've
not sort of it's what you said L as a
fairly insubstantial product so it's not
if you're getting sees it this is the no
so no one sees the craftsmanship I had
no awareness of that either there you go
and isn't that and I tell you what
happened to laa they went bust and and
and when I got when I seen in Italy just
the unbelievable the fact that all of
the people hand so they never told that
story they never told the story on a
slightly more praic basis I always every
time I meet KFC I always tell them to
tell people that Colonel Saunders
effectively founded KFC when he was 65
years old you know he had a a convoluted
career but he had spent about eight
years perfecting this recipe for chicken
and it's an extraordinary story you know
the fact that a multinational
corporation was created by someone in
there basically at retirement age and my
argument is I can't explain entirely why
but it just makes me think of the thing
differently knowing the knowing the
foundational story behind it can I tell
you a really secret a really easy way I
found to do exactly that to instill any
product with a apparent sense of huge
value in historic like story is just by
naming it after a person so if if I
named if I name if I have salad if I
have Italian uh spaghetti sauce which
I've just made in a factory and I called
it I don't know la la Bellis yeah you
immediately think of a family history
that must have been attached to that
product and and years and years of
iteration from this family and it was so
good that people now Buy on mass and
Tesco and I think that's that for me is
such an interesting example where just
by calling it after someone who sounds a
Italian yeah implants this whole you
know this this story of Heritage what do
you think about personalization and when
I say personalization I really mean this
the surface level personalization of
tickling someone's ego by yeah I always
talk about Starbucks them just writing
your name on the side of the cup or the
Sher a coat campaign where they put your
name on a that was us actually that was
in Australia who instigated that
brilliant idea but um um it's very
interesting personalization because it's
one of those things you have to be very
judicious about you know it can be
spooky okay and you know there are
companies that get it worryingly wrong
uh by essentially uh playing back to
people things that they shouldn't know
or didn't need to know I've had that and
so it's often one of those things which
I think is interesting because it's best
done obliquely spooky example give so if
you know something about someone in a
personalized letter you say uh you know
uh you may be the kind of person who
recently did this rather than saying you
did this and it can it can be spooky and
it's one of those very interesting
things where knowing how to play it uh
is um uh really really critical I'm
going to give you an example where I
think someone played it wrong because I
was thinking about yeah so one of the
this is maybe slightly different but um
I went I I registered for a gym on the
other side of the world I won't say the
country because they might listen on the
other side of the world right and 30 or
40 minutes after registering for the gym
I got an email from the CEO saying hi
Steve I've just seen you've registered
for our gym um if there's anything I can
do while while you're in town please let
me know blah blah blah blah blah now on
one hand people might think that's
that's great and that's lovely of them
to do but I don't know how that
individual got my details so I gave it
to an iPad on the front desk to a nice
Indonesian lady right and then the CEO
who's a British person is clearly what
else did they see of my details did they
see my my password did they see my bank
details so it just kind of it hurt me it
I was a bit shook by it I was like how
in 35 minutes since I put that details
into the iPad has the CEO in the UK
emailed me email not just has emailed my
manager and then I'll give you a good
example which is I flew to India I got
to a a hotel in India and as I went into
the room they had a chocolate Taj Mahal
and they had my company logo social
chain and a small rice paper sticker on
the the thing and I thought that that
made me feel special yeah one of them
made me feel like they'd invaded my
privacy a little bit and the other one
had made me feel really special and I
took my phone out and I do loads of
Instagrams about this hotel and this Taj
Mahal rice paper sticker that cost $2 so
you're right there is a fine line there
and you can I mean it's very interesting
because there's all you've also got to
be very very alert to cultural
differences so that Germans have a
paranoia about data protection and
privacy uh which is an order of
magnitude greater than that you find in
say the US where I think most people in
the US kind of have the mentality that
the horse is already bolted it's too
late everybody already knows all this
stuff so leaving aside things like
medical data and stuff that is you know
naturally expected to remain secret um
it's CU I thought with a machine it's
funny cuz when you put your details into
computers and like login forms and
registration you assume they're going
into some Vault it never occurred to me
that that now because you'd self inputed
it yeah um you'd assumed that
effectively it was Anonymous yes and it
was going into some vault in a computer
yeah that was encrypted and secure so to
get an email 35 I go well these people
saying all my dat got my phone number
he's got my passwords and that was just
felt like a bit and what's interesting
is you you you found it unpleasant
another person otherwise demographically
identical to you would be cool with it
yeah they put thought it was great
customer service generally it's probably
it's probably a caution that people who
work in
marketing are less um likely to be
sensitized to positive possible negative
interpretations of what they're doing
sure because people who work in
marketing are high on openness I'll give
you a lovely example of this which I I
better not name the client but it was
simply there was a special offer by a
credit card
company and uh the envelope sent out
just said final reminder in red because
the offer was about to expire okay and
we thought it was you know reasonably
cute you're going to open a letter with
final reminder on it and it'll tell you
that you've only got 10 days left to
enjoy this particular
discount and a significant minority of
people went bananas with this and the
reason was do you know what they said
that to a Londoner this is
incomprehensible okay if you live in
London or you live in a large city my
Postman thinks I don't pay my bills
because they'd received a letter with
final reminder on the outside of the
envelope now most people in London don't
really know their postmen and they
certainly wouldn't worry about their
postmen going around and gossiping about
them because in a place like London
there's a l of anonymity if you live in
a small Country Village totally
different matter because the postman
drinks at the same Pub as your friends
oh yeah of course and that's one of
those cases where no nobody working on
the thing had had any consideration
because londoners wouldn't be bothered
by by that equally as someone who shares
a doormat with five other people might
be bothered by that let me give you let
me I want to get some real um some
advice from you then so I'm I'm
launching a uh a brand soon and it's an
apparel brand and we've been working
very hard on it over the last year or so
maybe a bit too hard on it when when it
comes to delivering that apparel brand
to the world and making it um It's
actually an extension of this podcast
it's called doac D CEO um what advice
would you give me as it relates to
delivering that product to the world to
make sure that it is inherently valuable
and that people you know uh one one
piece of advice in any form of uh etail
two two forms of advice actually uh the
two M and by the way I think marketers
spent too much time focusing on the
addition of positives when a lot of time
needs to be spent on the removal of
negatives uh one thing is answer the
phone okay and do not hide your phone
number I I that so what seems to happen
in most e-commerce is you have what you
might call the sales area which is
everything that happens up to and
including a point of
purchase and everything there is
glorious and attractive and you know and
Slick okay assuming by the way you don't
have a weird question to
ask um but I would argue one um what
then happens is if something goes wrong
with your experience either the delivery
of the experience or you need to cancel
something as soon as you deviate from
that very narrowly preconceived sort of
purchase funnel you enter a world of
pain okay and the two things which are I
think grossly under underinvested in uh
in terms of e-commerce are one giving
what what tends to happen is once once
the marketing job is done because the
person has clicked
by the responsibility for that customer
is now hand it over to people whose
metrics are anything but customer
satisfaction their cost reduction how
can we make sure that nobody phones us
up how can we make sure that every phone
call is as brief as is feasibly possible
and how can we minimize the cost of
delivery and distribution now one of the
things I think is a grotesque mistake
that most e-commerce providers make not
all of them but many is not offering you
a choice of delivery couriers for
example okay now I know why they do that
they want to put everything through one
delivery Courier so can maximize their
rebate through through volume economies
of scale actually I think I you know I
think many me two two problems happen
there one if you don't get to choose how
your item is delivered if anything goes
wrong you blame the company you don't
blame the delivery company or yourself
if I had chosen to have it delivered by
Royal Mail and it went missing I blame
Royal Mail if they insist that I have it
delivered by you know without singling
out UPS dpd whatever and it goes wrong I
blame them MH um secondly you know
people have various preferences you know
uh your liking for ivery used to be
called um uh Hermes okay varies
enormously depending on which postcode
District you're in because if you have a
very good local driver it's incredibly
good and if your local driver's off sick
it's a disaster in some cases okay um
and by not not respecting the the fact
that the person is paying for the
delivery should choose who delivers it
yeah yeah strikes me as a fundamental
failing the business of hiding the phone
number so that anybody who has a problem
is effectively treated like a second
class citizen so you have this very
characteristic thing which I think is a
problem with e-commerce which is when it
goes well it's miraculously good okay
but the second anything out of the
ordinary happens you enter a world of
pain you know um and I think that is
that's a fundamental failing this is a
customer service point the importance of
customer service right a few people I
mean selfes do selfes do it pretty well
okay
um other things I do is I would offer a
kind of Amazon Prime equivalent where if
you pay a few pounds for delivery you
get free delivery for a year that seems
to be a you know fairly obvious and
brilliant idea because why should loyal
customers pay you know inordinately more
for you know delivery than one off
customers
do um I think you know I I think you can
make an effort around how the thing is
delivered and packaged and presented
which some people do well and some
people don't bother to do at all what do
you think the secret is there to doing a
good job with pack
um possibly there's a little bit of
costly signaling involved I mean if you
order something from selfridges um the
uh inside of the box is actually yellow
with the self's logo on a kind of shiny
backdrop and there's a little bit of
tissue paper okay so you're never left
um that will have a halo effect on your
perceived value of the product by the
way you I know we don't like it but
actually packaging is to some extent
packaging is where a product first
becomes a brand
it's where it first takes on a
personality an identity uh you know
um you know a kind of an implied target
audience and so in in this thing now the
interesting thing is how are you going
to uh what's your stick do you have for
example scarcity is the clothing
available in a limited so limited runs
we we actually we actually sold some
before when I did a tour of the UK and
you had to come to the tour to buy it
and every single night on the tour we
did nine nine nights three nights at the
London plaum took it up in another
country it sold out every single night
every single item to the point that we
sold the ones on our backs yeah and well
gave them away but um every single item
sold out in every single size on the
tour so this is like the second drop of
it everyone's well aware that the first
the first run of it all sold out um we
have a very limited line uh we have a
limited amount of items again this time
and I think the key thing with this um
release is we've just agonized over the
story of the piece so it's like it
really looks more like art than it does
clothing and we've worked with artists
and there's this big movie that I'm
releasing with every single item to
explain the meaning of the piece and
then we've put a lot of effort into the
packaging the bo unboxing experience so
it is limited it will honestly probably
sell out in the first day and um I don't
even think we're going to make money
from it but that's not really why I do
it it's more because I just love the I
love the process but um probably will
you probably will make money I mean
merch is um I'm just really not bothered
by making money from it it's not the
thing in my life I same with a tour like
I spent every penny I could on on the
bloody tour because it wasn't really why
I was doing it there's probably more of
a br a wider brand play yes to doing it
which is like it's it's bringing our
audience closer to us so it's maybe a
lost leader in terms of the financials
but in the broader engagement to no I
mean this is this is actually the great
curse of a lot of modern business given
the title of your um podcast which is
that people generally over obsess about
things which are immediately
quantifiable and
underinvestment or loyalty of course I
mean it's worth noting that customer
loyalty is much much slower to measure
than for example conversion yeah and so
the extent that money is invested in
Performance Marketing or the bottom of
the funnel relative to let's say wider
brand Fame yeah uh it's a widespread
problem in the whole business World
which is that the money isn't
necessarily being spent in in the in the
channels it is because it's more
effective there but simply because it's
more it's easier to prove that it has an
effect the truth of the matter is the
world will always be too uncertain for
us to know who our customers are in
advance and therefore since you know 97%
of the potential customer base aren't in
Market at any given time and therefore
won't being covered by search or you
know uh remarketing or whatever
spending money on the 97% of people in
advance ahead of times is still a very
effective thing to do the reason people
do too little of it is that it's hard to
quantify on that particular point then
having worked in the advertising
industry this is a conversation we have
all the time with clients which is
you'll meet a certain type of client who
is very uh who who's they're religious
about the bottom of the funnel they're
if it if I can't track it and I don't
know exact I won't do it then you'll
sometimes meet the opposite which is who
just loves to spend on brand and I don't
NE they're both wrong I don't think they
yeah I mean I mean Mark riten very good
marketing Professor always talks about
the importance of both ISM and he says
it's vitally important that when I
actually speak about the importance of
brand marketing that you do not
interpret this as denigrating digital
marketing in fact I go a bit further and
say the bottom of the funnel in many
respects is the thing you have to
optimize
first because there's no point in
actually uh if there's a a bottleneck at
the bottom of the funnel if there's some
constraint or a problem or a failing uh
you know if you have very poor
conversion okay there's no point in
spending money on Advertising because
you'll just introduce more people to a
disappointing experience you're wasting
money so youve got to get the back end
and I would argue the first thing in
theory you should optimize if you're
being an absolute purist is repeat
purchase um because having gone through
the expense to acquire these customers
and actually that's the that's the
metric that always fascinates me because
we were talking earlier about electric
cars and I said the question about
Electric carss isn't how many people are
buying them okay it's not what
percentage of the new car market in the
UK in July were plug-in
Vehicles now only question worth asking
really in the long term is does anybody
who buys an electric car go back to
buying a gasoline
car because if the answer to that is
hardly anybody then okay you don't know
the exact shape of the S curve but you
know the growth is going to be pretty
spectacular and so the thing to
understand I think in a market is to
what extent does your uh product
actually convert someone to something
and then the lifetime value so You'
start with repeat purchase then you go
to conversion and then you'd work your
way up but what tends to happen is that
when people are OBS are obsessed with
quantification of everything okay it's
worth noting by the way that all big
data comes from the same place the past
all right so there's a limit to how much
big data particularly if you've had some
major event like a pandemic in between
how much big data can actually tell you
about the future in any case um as David
Ogie famously said you're not
advertising to a standing army you're
advertising to a moving parade people
are coming in and out of Market all the
time um and so uh you're absolutely
right you get some people who are just
Fame junkies and by the way I suppose
there are brand categories where that's
appropriate if it's sold through
retailers you know in other words if
it's mostly sold in the physical space
you might you know you might argue to an
extent you know for let's say a burger
or McDonald's that's not a totally crazy
position although it is now because
suddenly they got to think about
delivery and and whether people order
through the app or order through an
intermediary because it has a major
bearing on their business but but at the
same time yeah I mean the tragedy is
this idea of this false dichotomy
between brand advertising and what you
might call Performance or digital
marketing as if you have to be in one
camp or the other where is the balance
though and how does one go about is it
just in is it just there are figures on
this so if you look at the work of um
Les Benet for example and Peter field uh
the ratio shifts a little bit but
generally they'll stipulate a figure
around about the 6040 Mark in favor of
what you might call Brand mass media uh
expenditure because they have a a
mutually beneficial relationship top of
the makes the the first 20 years of my
life I spent in direct marketing and
actually you know because direct
marketing was unfashionable we spent a
lot of time denigrating advertising
spend because they got much bigger
budgets than us not necessarily rightly
but they were also you know much more
indulged than we were because they
didn't have to prove Effectiveness down
to the same sort of level of statistical
significance but we came to realize
pretty quickly that actually um first of
all there's nothing harder than direct
marketing a product that nobody's ever
heard of yeah and that every time just
to give an example every time American
Express went on television or advertised
big in mass media uh the response rates
to direct mail would not quite double
maybe but they increased pretty
significantly you had to work less hard
and you had to work it's that wonderful
phrase which comes from a book by uh let
me get his job right uh his his his name
right
um I think it's Matt Johnson who's just
written a book called um uh brands that
mean business and his wonderful line is
having a great brand means you get to
play the game of capital m in Easy Mode
yeah so true and that's and what what is
true is is Fame to some extent brings a
load of benefits which aren't
necessarily sales related so for example
you can [__] up and your customers will
be more forgiving okay uh take the
example of Apple I mean on a couple of
occasions Apple has produced products
which had Fairly major flaws which might
have proved pretty fatal to lesser
Brands you know the famous f where if
you held it in the wrong way it didn't
make phone calls for example and um
given the reality Distortion field
around the Apple brand people have
passed over those incredibly rapidly and
so there you know people are less price
sensitive that's not easy to measure by
the way as well it's very easy to
measure the the extent to which
something has an effect on sales but the
effect to which something has an effect
on price elasticity and the extent to
which you can command a premium because
it's a great brand because it's a great
brand is harder to measure because you
don't have the
counterfactual you know when you sell
something the counterfactual is that you
assume that you wouldn't have sold it
otherwise but if you sell something for
a high
price you can't in fact determine that
without your advertising you wouldn't
have sold it yeah for you know for that
for that premium price so it's it's to
some extent this quest for perfect
measurement to to reduce marketing to a
kind of Newtonian physics is a bit of a
false god Fame you about Fame there Fame
can also be applied in the topic of
personal branding as well obviously
social media has allowed us all now to
build our personal Brands you've got the
Gary Vaya Chucks of the world who have
built you know you know their companies
are famous because they've they've
branded a person at Ogie and within your
sort of your your marketing what kind of
shift have you seen in the desire for
people to become Brands themselves and
how valuable do you think that is I
think advertising always had those
personal Brands and if anything it's
slightly diminished actually really um
uh campaign magazine always did a very
good job of you know making sure there
were 30 or 40 sort of famous names
within the within the business that that
just happens in a different medium now
right it happens on LinkedIn with yes I
I agree I mean you know so I mean one of
the greatest things for example there's
a wonderful wonderful guy who now must
be I don't want to name his age but you
know his you know past retirement age
called Dave Trot you probably know okay
uh he'd be a brilliant interview by the
way on the show absolutely fantastic but
what has been absolutely fantastic is
that um uh you know he's a glorious
advertising mind I mean just an absolute
ornament to the industry and he through
Twitter and through uh
blogging has had a completely new lease
of life and influence to a completely
new generation of people um and has been
you know hugely valuable as a teacher
what's interesting about that actually
is that of course uh he does that
unpaid and one of the things that is
complicated about this new world okay
you know the most valuable thing I often
do in the course of a working week is
either to give something away or to put
somebody in touch with something else
neither of which you know that kind of
barter um neither of those things is in
any way monetizable is it well
reciprocity would say otherwise I know I
suppose you've just got to rely on a
high degree of reciprocity in some
respect I mean it always it always
bothers me about this which is that
we're in a business advertising which is
paid by the hour which is a terrible way
to pay for ideas yeah because the value
of something has no relation to the time
uh devoted to its
Inception and
um it it is genuine I mean you know I
always joke about this the most valuable
thing I probably did was almost
accidentally my working life which was
to go to the government's behavioral
insights team and as a sort of fanatical
Vapor I'd been a longtime smoker and had
a been able to quit for the first time
successfully by switching to vaping it
took me a little while but once I'd made
the switch I've never gone back
um and I went to the government's
behavioral insights team and I said look
um these things are coming over from
both Japan and the United States they're
electronic cigarettes I think there are
two things you need to be alert to in
Psychology one of which is that um
because they actually replicate the
habit of smoking not just the nicotine
uh they are a major kind of what you
might call a gateway drug act they're a
major source of harm reduction at the
very least uh it may help people to quit
uh at the very least it'll help people
to shift to something a much less
harmful delivery device versus patches
versus patches and guns and things like
that which didn't replicate the behavior
and then the second thing I said is the
second thing you got to be alert to is
that because of peculiar human
psychology half the people in the what
you might call the health and
anti-smoking Lobby will be fanatical
about banning electronic
cigarettes and all credited them the
behavioral insights team um under a guy
called David halpen I think they went to
the Cameron government and said favor
here can we have a light touch on vaping
regulation please and you know various
parts of the EU have gone for much
stricter regulation there were some
countries which were more or less
Banning it the US has banned jeel for
some reason bizarre on that on that
point of personal branding though do do
you think building a personal brand is
important yeah um it's very interesting
I mean you have a personal brand whether
you like it or not but that's one really
important point about branding which is
that everybody you know and and that's
by the way why I think marketing is so
important because it's not the brand is
not the heated steering wheel of the
marketing world you know the optional
extra that you can do without but is
quite nice to have people are going to
perceive you in some way regardless of
anything you do okay they're going to
form an impression of you they're going
to form an impression of what you're
worth what kind of business you are um
you know and they will use all manner of
kind of inferences and heuristics to
arrive at this
conclusion and in many ways I suppose
this is why I argue that marketing isn't
an optional extra it's an essential
because the worst thing you can
do is build a great product and fail to
present it in a way that is convincing
appealing attractive or which confers
status on its users and the same applies
for your personal brand and the same
yeah the same you're going to have a
personal brand whether you like it or
not so you might as well try and have a
good one I think it probably is true to
say that the personal brand requires
sacrifice you know that old that old
saying that strategy is the art of
sacrifice but way not totally true I
think there are win-wins you know what
is the sacrifice of a penel brand but
well I I
suspect you don't need to suspect you
got a personal brand yeah you you have
to have weaknesses as well as strengths
now interesting ly for example one of
the things that will be part of my
personal brand is I I'm not a CEO I have
no aspiration to be a CEO and I know
enough about myself to know I would not
be good at that job okay there are
certain forms of uh of ambition and
aspiration which you know constant with
with a personal brand that I have uh are
basically there avenues that are closed
to me I'm not very good at
Administration I'm very bad at making
difficult decisions self-awareness is a
personal brand strength yeah I suppose
but I'm I'm know I'd be useful I'd be
useful at making oblique or unusual
suggestions I'd be useful at getting
people to consider the same thing in
five different ways or uh promoting a
counterintuitive thought I might be
useful at suggesting somebody you know
you I've got fairly good personal roller
deex you know before you run off and do
this on your own why don't you talk to
this guy at this University who's been
studying this for the last 15 years when
you think about why you were successful
in your career and why you know you're
very very well known in the industry and
people speak very highly of you why in
hindsight do you think as you look back
and connect those dots you were
successful um I think um and by the way
this is also an argument for you know
ethnic cognitive all kinds of diversity
I really really love the Avatar and
marketing industry I think it's a source
of endless Fascination I think it's much
much more economically important uh than
is recognized uh in the contribution it
makes to uh Innovation to progress uh to
human flourishing actually uh so I tend
to take a fairly positive take the only
the only thing I'd say is I've always
had half one foot out of the industry I
haven't entirely bought in you know I
never I I half bought into the awards
culture let's say but retained a degree
of skepticism you know I half buy
into purpose but but you in other words
haven't become ideological about
anything to some extent I'm ideological
about not being
ideological um you know human psychology
is immensely complicated okay even at
the level of the individual at the level
of individuals interacting with other
individuals it is immensely complicated
I don't think it's something you can
generally pronounce confidently about
all you can do is start by asking better
questions and perform better experiments
I think and I think that's to some
extent why entrepreneurs are so
essential uh in
Innovation bit of it a bit of it is the
one disadvantage big companies have in
innovating is that it's very difficult
to get the timing right and if you think
about it while one big company has one
shot at an idea 15 entrepreneurs will
launch at 15 different times and one of
them will get the timing right just by
the law of averages okay so the timing
is one issue but the other issue is that
maybe the really Innovative product
require some component of nonsense I
don't mean nonsense but I mean nonsense
you know there's a degree of uh either
sort of counterintuitive or seemingly
illogical quality to them I want to know
about you though okay why you were
successful so you said that sort of
unconven maintaining unconventional
thinking and it even actually struck me
because when you said you went to this
bug convention giving yourself another
point of reference to inspire creativity
or out of the box out of the industry
thinking is quite clearly a huge
Advantage yeah c i curiosity is probably
the kind of table stakes in in this
business if you're generally curious
what about what else about you though um
I can I has it a guess I'm quite okay
I'm quite good at the Spiel you I'm
quite good at my feet which I don't know
where that came from uh you know growing
up in Wales is a bit of a bonus the
Spiel what you mean well you you grew up
in Plymouth okay okay yeah
now without without disparaging people
in the southeast of England okay in the
west of England and in the Celtic
Fringe people talk not just to convey
information but to prove they're good at
talking there's a kind of musical
quality to Celtic Irish Welsh
conversation which is it's a form of
kind of regardless of the actual
information it contains people enjoy
seeing it done really well why do they
why do you think people enjoy hearing
talk because I would agree I think that
you're a very very good talker oh one
thing um by the way which Nim Talib very
interesting on this Nim Talib always
says you should Mumble or you should
speak very fast and his argument is that
if you make it slightly difficult for
people to comprehend what you're saying
either by speaking very fast or by
speaking slightly indistinctly they pay
more attention to what you're saying I
think I think there's an interesting
thing just from hearing you speak today
where um you you're actually you're a
very engaging speaker because when you
introduce a point you introduce it with
a compelling slightly ambiguous story so
even you'll you'll start it with that
and then the next sentence leads me up
to you're almost making me a promise
that of of what you're going to reveal
to me in that story and then you deliver
upon that Promise by telling me a story
and certain I have I see it a lot with
people when they're speaking and also
there's other things like your tonal
fluctuations so if you and also your use
of pausing but your tonal fluctuations
actually do keep maybe a Welsh thing by
the way I don't have a Welsh accent but
some people have said I I've kind of got
Welsh intonation I've sat here with
authors before and they they're so smart
but honestly I just can't I can't stay
with them because it's always like this
the whole to of the conversation is like
this so you just really it's F really
you know what I mean yeah and it's just
that it's so but you yeah see you can't
you can't accuse the Welsh of not adding
a little bit of musicality to uh it's
just interesting when you look back in
hindsight because I genuinely believe
having spoken to you today your delivery
of ideas and stories and it's funny that
I even use use of the word stories is
such a huge part of why you've been able
to rise above the crop and I actually
think about it with myself it's it's
it's all good having talent and genius
and smarts which you have and a lot of
people have but then the ability to
liquate it and articulate it in a way
that's captivating I think stories are
the PDF files of human information okay
so they're they're the vehicle we use
for storing information and the vehicle
we use for sharing it it's a universal
format like the f file you know it
doesn't matter what Hardware the
recipient's got they can read the file
okay you just did it again okay so you
said you introduced a really compelling
idea that I'd never heard before I think
they are the PDF file of human
information I like what and then you
have me and by a lot of people don't do
that a lot of people don't introduce the
first concept in the sentence as being
something slightly ambiguous and unusual
which inspires curiosity via engagement
so it's it's an interesting it's
probably a habit that you have but I
think it's a very useful one if for
people to try and learn so class IST at
University whether I learned it a bit uh
I mean doing I'm a big fan of Classics
in schools by the way because I think
first of all I don't think you can
actually decide as an English speaker
which language you should learn in
advance so learning a language which
allows you to learn other languages more
quickly may not maybe the best approach
for modern languages ironically is to
teach dead languages I German might be
an alternative because that at least
teaches you how language sort of works
um didn't you say something actually in
this book about this about how making
something ambiguous is actually
sometimes more effective because yes the
the idea that Trump was quite a valuable
deterrent I'm not sure that they would
have invaded the Ukraine if Trump had
still been president because uh this is
this comes down to the realm of Game
Theory which is that being
irrational uh in some senses is is
actually an intelligent strategy because
no one's quite sure what you're going to
do in response yeah that the that once
you're rational you're predictable and
once you're predictable you can be
hacked and so having some element of
this is where probably the need for
human temper and anger arises you see if
you had someone who would never lose
their temper and lash out even at some
risk to their own safety okay you could
dick around with them almost endlessly
couldn't you if you had someone who is
100% docile and would just roll with all
the punches and would never lose it and
would never retaliate simply because it
wasn't rational to retaliate against say
unsuitable odds I mean there probably
were people like that but they didn't
have many descendants I think from a
darwinian point of view no you're right
and actually entirely rational people
wouldn't have spawned many descendants
because their behavior would have been
too predictable it been very easy to
trap them I just think there's a broader
Point here which in which is it's I mean
it's Central to advertising as well
which is people Overlook the importance
of communication hugely in in in overall
outcomes and even when I sit here with
people that can speak well and tell
stories well and convey ideas well I
don't even think half the time they
realize that that's such a huge part of
their Brilliance over the course of a
lifetime imagine imagine the
opportunities you'll create the ability
to sell yourself the ability to push
your ideas forward whether they're right
or wrong the ability to inspire others
and I I honestly think I well actually
one of the things that's most painful to
me about watching The Dragon's Den is
now I I occasionally watch Shark Tank or
whatever the American equivalent okay
now Americans have this tradition of
show tell don't they where even when
you're at primary school you have to go
up and give a talk about something MH
and
generally I find most Americans are
pretty good at you know at giving an
account of something 100% And one of the
painful things about the Brits on
Dragon's Den is sometimes I can see the
people have actually what is a pretty
good idea but they're telling the story
from like the wrong end of the telescope
completely I'm I'm going this is this is
actually painful to me because you have
this fantastic idea now you know okay
this is okay slightly unethical but in a
few cases I just go look if you just
invent a story about how you came up
with this okay now apparently the whole
eBay story about pezes was never really
true you know that his girlfriend wanted
to trade pezes but they felt they needed
a foundation myth for how eBay got
started you know and you I I bet I
wonder if it's actually true that that
Uber came up with a map when
I see it all the time in the see these
wonderful stories come up just come up
with a you know you know a great story
but also the way in which they um the
their ability to generate perceived
value through
narrative um is their greatest weakness
and I I I'm watching this I'm get this
is just painful you know I mean actually
schools should be teaching this yeah
that's what I'm saying should I mean how
it leads you to worry you know are there
people out there and by the way I'm sure
this is you know this is true there are
there must have been people out there
who had extraordinary inventive skills
whose complete lack of marketing skills
effectively meant they died in obscurity
just even their complete lack of simple
communication skills yeah like not even
Mar marketing is maybe step two but just
being able to tell someone else like an
investor or a potential co-founder about
their ideas in an inspiring way that
will Galvanize them and get them in to
join the mission yeah I I I honestly I
think the most important skill in the
world that that you could you know give
gift to a child or anyone is just the
ability to uh communicate effectively
tell stories and what which is
ultimately what we call sales yeah and
you do it when you're meeting a girl in
a nightclub or whether you're inspiring
employees or investors or you're
building a personal brand or you're
talking to customers the ability to
understand how to keep people um well I
got an idea I want to propose to the
government that I mean I think that if
we take Mar thinking and alchemical
thinking we can also deploy it within
politics and government and and um uh
public sector decision
making you know I think the NHS could
actually create massively greater
patient
Satisfaction by deploying certain you
know behaviors and techniques just for
their meaning not for their objective
medical value
okay but um like what well I
I'll give one example I think you could
actually reframe waiting time for an
operation in some cases as preparation
for the operation so if that time can be
put to good use actually losing weight
in my case if I ever I had to have
invasive surgery okay if they said okay
the operation's in six weeks that means
you've got six weeks to lose so many
Stone and this is how we're going to do
it and so the time is actually spent
improving the odds of the operation
rather than just waiting secondly you
could probably borrow a tip from Uber
and you could continually remind them of
of the date remind them of Milestones so
they didn't feel that part of the reason
they're terrified of it being six weeks
away is because they think it's going to
shift by another six weeks you know it's
a bit like there's a very big difference
between waiting for a pastel to arrive
which you can track and waiting for a
pastel to arrive that you can't track
yeah so you know making making things
sort of trackable in some sense to
reassure people I think there are a lot
of psychological uh things you know just
as actually Dume ingeniously if you have
to Q for Dum they come out and make you
chai okay and they serve chai to the
waiting Q now that's very clever because
that act of generosity inspires
reciprocation so you're much less likely
to quit the queue I think another one i'
do is i' I'd reduce student loans
significantly if people had worked for
one or two years before they went to
University I think that I think that
could be a major major game Cher because
at the moment why why would you do okay
right what what happened
okay this is one of those invisible
effects which nobody notices when I went
to University in
1984 okay okay you know I I had a
private education not a you know very
good one actually and I I I went to
Cambridge in 1984 Okay then if you had a
degree from let's say a Russell group
University it was um sufficient to get
you a reasonably good starting job but
it wasn't necessary what happened when
we expand expanded higher education was
a degree became necessary but not
sufficient mhm okay and so you have a
bunch of people who might be better off
or happier going straight into the world
of work who are now required to get a
degree in order to start work at a kind
of level in which they can reach
positions of reasonable reward okay now
it wasn't like that you could you could
go into you know well-paid work without
a degree in 1987 you can't do that now
okay very easily
now I think if you reserved a whole load
of University places or you discounted
University places for people who'd
worked somewhere first some of these
people may well find out that they love
the business so much they wouldn't
bother going to University at all but
you'd also create a social Norm where
there was nothing weird about not going
to University before you started work so
you'd break that assumption that
University automatically comes straight
after school but the third requirement
would be if we're going to educate
people it's not a totally crazy
requirement of them to make them prove
that they can actually function in the
real world with other people because I'm
not sure I was bit I'm a bit sad that
kemy banock was just knocked out of the
conservative leadership thing because a
she didn't have a degree in PPE from
Oxford which is a positive in my book
but also she worked in McDonald's now
I'm not sure genuinely that in terms of
tacit knowledge understanding of the
world I'm not sure that I wouldn't have
been better off with one year less at
Cambridge and one year more working at
McDonald's I you know we forget this we
have this extraordinary narrative that
education adds to people's human capital
okay and that somehow the second you
start work you know you become just you
know you learn nothing this is
completely the opposite of my experience
you know I learned just as much to my
first three years in Ogie as I did at
three years in University the idea that
working isn't educational and that
there's that the only way you can add to
human capital or value is by putting
people through these incredibly
artificial sort of oblique intelligence
tests which aren't really very good
you're looking at a Dropout so I I the
interesting thing the interesting thing
which must be true statistically and it
must be true simply because simply
because of Bill Gates and Mark
Zuckerberg is that the average Harvard
Dropout is almost certainly much richer
than the average Harvard graduate
because even Zuckerberg and Gates on
their own would make that a statistical
necessity yeah I yeah and I I would not
be surprised to hear that because I
think it also points to another
characteristic that those individuals
have that is conducive with success we
do have a closing tradition on this
podcast which is the last guest writes a
question for the next guest yeah um and
this guest has written a question for
you now their handwriting is not good so
this is I've been staring at this for
about 15 minutes trying to figure out
what it says but here we go um if I
asked you at the age of 16 who in the
world you would have liked to be what
would you have said and has
your answer
changed uh probably not it probably
would have been someone like John C um I
venerate commedian the comedian John C
of of the Monty Python okay and Faulty
Towers it probably would have been
someone like that I think because I
venerate comedians because they bring
this extraordinary
fresh I got to use a fancy epistemology
you know their way of perceiving the
world is in and this is why I'm very
much against politically correct um uh
sort of political activists uh trying to
effectively censor comedians because
what you're allowing there is for a
group of people who have an incredibly
narrow unsophisticated and moronic
epistemology to legislate on people who
have a spectacularly sophisticated and
nuanced and um uh and complex uh sense
of perception it's completely the wrong
way around you know comedians should be
able to ban political activists for
being boring in a healthy world not the
other way around um so yeah i' I I
venerate comedians to a particular
degree I think um so your answer would
have been um yeah I think I think it
would have been some kind of comedian uh
I would have you know whether later on
it might have been the not the 9:00 news
team I didn't know who he was at the
time but John Lloyd who is behind a
great deal of actually very successful
advertising uh but also behind a great
deal of very successful television
comedy has to be considered one of the
all-time greats and has your answer
changed no not really uh no I still I
still venerate uh those people you know
I'll sit down with YouTube and watch you
know three hours of Bill Burr and four
hours of Dave Chappelle Dave Chappelle
by the way you know as uh in terms of
delivery is we're talking about that
whole business of how you speak mhm um I
mean I I just sit there in awe you know
um and so no those are the people those
are the people who I I kind of can't
help but uh venerate first of all I just
want to say thank you it's been a really
inspiring conversation and really this
book is really great it's really
challenging in all the right ways but
it's based on so much truth and
experience that I really believe that
it's one of those essential books for
people that are working in these
industries or just in really any
industry because if you're in business
the principles within this book are so
applicable to so many things
um that I feel like it's a really
essential book so thank you for writing
it thank you for being here today it's
been a real honor to speak to you um and
yeah continue being yourself because I
think the world needs a few more people
like you that that thinking the way you
do so thank you so much R I'll keep
trying thank you very much and keep up
the good work it's been fantastic and an
inspiration thank you Rory quick one as
you might know crafted are one of the
sponsors of this podcast and crafted are
a jewelry brand and they make really
meaningful pieces of jewelry the really
wonderful thing about crafted jewelry is
it's super affordable it looks amazing
the pieces hold tremendous meaning and
they are really wellmade I think I've
worn this piece for almost a year it
hasn't broken hasn't changed color cuz
it's really really good quality and it
costs roughly 50 Quid people will be
surprised when they hear that they'll
probably assume that all of my jewelry
is like solid gold and cost thousands
and thousands of pounds but what's the
point when you can achieve the exact
same effect from a piece of jewelry
that's high quality and cost 50 quids
that's why I crafted
[Music]